# NTM_validation
Pipeline to identify the species of unknown non-tuberculosis Mycobacteria from isolate sequencing.

ASM 2024 poster# CPHM-​SUNDAY-259​
Non-tuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) cause lung and disseminated infections in both healthy and immunocompromised individuals. Treatment regimens differ for various NTM species; therefore, there is a great need for rapid and accurate methods to speciate NTM pathogens for clinical diagnostics. Current methods are time consuming and may not provide adequate resolution of several NTM species-complexes. This study was conducted to investigate the use of whole genome sequencing (WGS) for identification of clinically significant NTM as a part of public health laboratory workflow using the Oxford Nanopore Technologies (ONT) platform. Specifically, we evaluated NTM identification based on an average nucleotide identity (ANI) approach versus individual gene markers. For the later, a new taxonomic marker, tlyC , was compared to well-established rpoB and hsp65 markers typically used for NTM speciation. Both ANI and single-gene approaches showed good concordance with conventional microbiological identification. The novel tlyC target performed better in clustering and identifying NTM species than other evaluated single-gene targets, and showed discriminatory power comparable to that of ANI. ​

Our proof-of-concept study supports the implementation of NGS using the ONT platform to identify NTM species and subspecies due to its high accuracy, low DNA quantity requirements, and quick turnaround time. The newly identified biomarker tlyC, along with hsp65 and rpoB targets, can provide additional data to achieve accurate identification and differentiation of NTM species and subspecies alongside ANI species identification. In addition, to evaluating these genetic markers for NTM identification, we have developed a bioinformatics pipeline to incorporate and automate the approaches using ANI as well as multiple single-gene markers for NTM identification.  ​
